# QT Introduction {#t20167}


# What is QT?

-   QT is a framework for building UI's.
-   It makes UI's easy to make and does all the heavy lifting for us.
-   soccer uses QT for all it's GUI stuff, as well as a few other things.
-   (today will be a project heavy day, so get ready!)


# How do we use QT?


## Generate a \*.ui file

-   A ui file is a XML file generated by QT
-   It specifies the layout of the window
-   Adding buttons or changing layout is as simple as editing the UI file
-   You can open or generate UI files in QtCreator (installed in your VM's)


## Link the UI into your program

-   You will need to program 'handlers' for actions that the UI takes
    -   Ex: ButtonPressed, SelectedGroup, EnterText
-   Your program can respond to these cues by modifying bits of the UI


# Build Systems

-   Designed to be as flexible as 'pressing run' in your IDE, while being easily shareable between programmers
-   They make it easy to compile and run a large project on many platforms, which could have hundreds of dependencies


## What does a Build System do?

1.  Compile only files that need to be compiled
    -   Don't compile files that have not changed
    -   Ensure changed files get properly recompiled
2.  Let your program easily interact with libraries
    -   A library, such as QT, would have to be manually specified in gcc without a build system.
3.  Speed up compilation by compiling independent files in parallel
4.  Bring all compiled files together into one nice, runnable file!


## CMake

-   A C/C++ build system, very widely used
-   Uses `CMakeLists.txt` files for configuration.
-   These files can be nested (so I can copy a CMake project into mine, and automatically use their CMakeLists).


# Project: Create a Simple QT App

-   RoboJackets/qt-example(<http://bit.ly/2fTIPfL>)
-   This will help you create a basic QT Gui compiled with CMake!
-   This is a old project, and it might be confusing, so we'll be here to help you out.
-   Let us know if you have questions.
